ticdc: add cdc summary monitor (#13198)
pingcap/docs: ticdc/ticdc-summary-monitor.md

---
title: TiCDC Monitoring Metrics Summary
summary: Learn about the monitoring metrics of TiCDC.
---

# TiCDC Monitoring Metrics Summary

Starting from v7.0.0, when you deploy Grafana using TiUP, the TiCDC Summary Dashboard is automatically added to the Grafana monitoring page. Through this dashboard, you can quickly understand the status of TiCDC servers and changefeeds.

The following image shows the monitoring panels of the TiCDC Summary Dashboard:

![TiCDC Summary Dashboard - Overview](/media/ticdc/ticdc-summary-monitor.png)

Each monitoring panel is described as follows:

- Server: summary of TiCDC nodes in the cluster.

> - Changefeed: the delay and status information of TiCDC changefeeds.

Reviewer: both "latency" and "delay" are used in this doc

- **Backend Flush Duration**: the duration that the TiCDC Transaction Sink module takes to execute a SQL statement on the downstream. By observing this metric, you can determine whether the performance of the downstream is the bottleneck of the replication speed. Generally, the p999 value should be below 500 ms. When the value exceeds this limit, the replication speed might be affected, resulting in an increase in the Changefeed checkpoint lag.

- **Full Flush Duration**: the total duration consumed by each transaction in TiCDC from sorting by Sorter to sending downstream. By subtracting the **Backend Flush Duration** value from this value, you can get the total queueing time of a transaction before it is executed on the downstream. If the queueing time is too long, you can consider allocating more memory quota to the replication task.

## MQ Sink panel

The **MQ Sink** panel only has data when the downstream is Kafka.

![TiCDC Summary Dashboard - Transaction Sink metrics](/media/ticdc/ticdc-summary-monitor-mq-sink.png)

- **Worker Send Message Duration Percentile**: The delay of TiCDC MQ Sink worker sending data downstream.

> - **Kafka Ongoing Bytes**: The rate at which TiCDC MQ Sink sends data downstream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Kafka Ongoing Bytes**: The speed at which TiCDC MQ Sink sends data to the downstream.
```

Reviewer: both "speed" and "rate" are used in this doc

## Cloud Storage Sink panel

> The **Cloud Storage Sink** panel only has data when the downstream is Cloud Storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Cloud Storage Sink** panel displays data only when the downstream is Cloud Storage.
```

![TiCDC Summary Dashboard - Transaction Sink metrics](/media/ticdc/ticdc-summary-monitor-cloud-storage.png)

- **Write Bytes/s**: The rate at which the Cloud Storage Sink module writes data to the downstream.
- **File Count**: the total number of files written by the Cloud Storage Sink module.

## Redo panel

> The **Redo** panel only has data when the Redo Log feature is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Redo** panel displays data only when the Redo Log feature is enabled.
```

![TiCDC Summary Dashboard - Transaction Sink metrics](/media/ticdc/ticdc-summary-monitor-redo.png)

> - **Redo Write rows/s**: the number of rows written per second by the Redo module. When the Redo feature is enabled, if the delay of a replication task increases, you can observe whether there is a significant difference between this metric and the value of Puller Output event/s. If so, it might be due to the insufficient writing capacity of the Redo module causing an increase in delay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Redo Write rows/s**: the number of rows written per second by the Redo module. When the Redo feature is enabled, if the latency of a replication task increases, you can observe whether there is a significant difference between this metric and the value of Puller Output event/s. If so, the increase in latency might be due to the insufficient writing capacity of the Redo module.
```

> - **Redo Write Byte/s**: the rate at which data is written per second by the Redo module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Redo Write Byte/s**: the speed at which data is written per second by the Redo module.
```
